which type of beer would you say I
prefer bitter or lager go on have a
guess
well actually may surprise you to learn
no you're right it's bitter but he
didn't used to be for most of my
drinking life
I drank lager and to be honest part of
the reason was I quite liked it that
that about me at least was not entirely
predictable I mean I accept it was a
small thing it's not as if my drink of
choice was a Manhattan or a raspberry
milkshake but still it was something but
lately the center of gravity of my
stereotype has finally pulled me in and
I have reluctantly conceded that bitter
is just a nicer more interesting less
fizzy drink I know
give me ten years and I'll be smoking a
tweed pipe the other reason I avoided
bitter though is that it was invariably
advertised as creamy which sounds
revolting who in the world when looking
for a long drink at the end of the day
wants it to be creamy who drinks a pint
of cream in fact of course bitters are
almost universally not creamy they're
sharp and crisp and thirst quenching and
well bitter the only ones that are in
the slightest bit creamier the horrible
pressurized one to get on tap in an old
bar one and the fact that they're creamy
is a flaw a fault of the system by which
they're mass-produced and served and no
doubt in some marketing meeting once
upon a time people puzzled over what to
do about it you can't get away from it
said one of them probably called Zac
it's just not very nice it's not crisp
at all it's gloopy it leaves a sort of
film in your mouth it's almost creamy
wait a minute cried another possibly
named AJ creamy that's a good word
that's a heritage word creamy that
sounds like a good thing
sounds like how things used to be in the
good old days I reckon if we polled
people as to whether they thought
Britain had got more or less creamy over
the last 50 years
they'd say less and they'd be sorry
about it everything in the past was
creamy wasn't it call me crazy but I
reckon we can actually promote this beer
as being creamy and make that sound like
a good thing
and with that Zack and AJ went on to win
many advertising awards and lose their
immortal souls I also like wine but the
thing bitter has got over wine is that
it's all priced at pretty much the same
level with wine you can essentially tell
the quality of any particular bottle
pretty accurately by referring to the
other label the little one with
the numbers on it but if there are five
bitters on tap in your local pub well
firstly well done for living so near
such an excellent pub there'll all cost
about the same so knowing which one you
want and expressing a personal
preference is more personal and so more
of a preference so that's better for you
nicer than lager more democratic than
wine and not in the least bit creamy
Cheers